---
title: The Dev Lance
---
#### The Dev Lance
Or, The intersection of Italian Renaissance Warface Software Development

In 1360 A.D. the White Company, lead by John Hawkwood, was dominating the
italian military scene.  John, initially an English soldier during the Hundred
Years War, joined a mercenary band called the White Company (supposedly called
so due to the amount they polished their plate armour).  After serving various
factions in France, John and the White Company traveled south to Italy, where
he would stay for the duration of his life.

John is regarded as one of the leading mercenary captains (condottieri) in
Renaissance Italy.  He achieved victory after victory using superior tactics
and superior weapon systems.  Specifically he perfected (and may have
introduced the Italians to) the use lances, a small group of soldiers who
supported one another during combat.  A typical Lance makeup would be two
mounted knights and a knight's page.  The knights bore the brunt of the work
but were only successful due to the work of the page who polished their armor,
kept their weapons, and supported them during combat by replenishing their
mounts.

In the vein of History being Philosophy by Example, I can't help but draw
parallels between the Lances of the White Company and Software Development
departments.  In both situations you have a group of people with different
roles, but the same main objective.  You have some that do the actual work,
and others who support those doers and make sure they have the best chance of
success.  You operate as a unit cohesive unit, and strive for organization and
efficiency to achieve victory.

In this example, knights would be the engineers.  Literally with their boots on
the ground, they solve problems and fix issues by wading through source code
and documentation.  On their own they'd probably get a decent chunk of work
done, but eventually they'd start to become less efficient.  To continue our
metaphor: their weapons would become dull, their armour rusty, and their horses
exhausted.

That's where a page would add support by sharpening weapons, polishing armor
and replacing horses.  The most apt parallel for a page would be management,
both project and otherwise.  Similar to a page, it's the job of management to
give best chance of success by providing better tools, removing blockers and
keeping everything running smoothly.  While they have many tasks to do, their
sole objective is to enable the ones doing the actual work, and help them
become more efficient.

It's only with a balance of doers and supporters that you get success.  Great
doers with poor support will eventually burn out and fail; inefficient doers
with great supporters won't get the chance to succeed.  While in both the
Renaissance Lance and the Dev Lance success is measured by how efficiently the
doers can get their jobs done, only with competency in both areas will allow
complete success.



Sources: 
Mallett, Michael Edward., and William Caferro. Mercenaries and Their Masters: Warfare in Renaissance Italy. Barnsley: Pen & Sword Military, 2009. Print.
wikipedia.org
