---
title: Commincation increases accountability
layout: default
---
# Communication increases accountability
It's pretty easy to start something, and it's somewhat difficult to
periodically work on it.  But what's most difficult is to actually quarterback
something over the finish line.

I do this all the time.  For personal projects, I'll think of something I want
to do, buy all the parts get all the pieces ready for assembly.  But, when it
comes to putting in the actual work and finishing it, frequently I'll decide to
do something that isn't as challenging (i.e. most other things).

And nothing is worse than an unfinished project.  Living in my one bedroom
apartment in Brooklyn, I realistically only have a finite amount of room to
store my useless junk in.  The most things I leave unfinished, the less room I
have for stuff I actually want.

Again, for personal stuff, I find that the two best things for finishing
projects are working in bitsized chunks any being realistic when it timelines,
and not telling a soul about what I'm working on.  The former helps not spend
my entire weekend on a single thing that ends up being frustrated and shelved.
Giving myself a month to work on even small things helps keep my interest.  The
latter saves any sort of embarassment, since telling a friend you're working on
something really cool, then not finishing it feeds the frustration.

This is all fine and great for personal stuff, but at work this whole
methodology doesn't really work.  Generally, projects need to be done (or at
least functioning) as quick as possible.  And, if you work on stuff either
covertly or individually, you run the risk of somebody else doing something
similar (so you're doing double work), and not getting input from other people
that you'll probably end up affecting.

I've found that the best way of starting a project at work in to essentially do
the exact opposite of what I do for personal stuff.  Instead of keeping stuff
close to the chest and being slow, I'll scream from the hilltops, email
everybody, and try to let all my coworkers know what I'm doing, why I'm doing
it, and what I hope it'll accomplish.

Not only does this increase communication and allow me to get any feedback to
help with execution, but it'll also give me the impetus I need to get something
done.  When I know everybody is in the loop, I know everybody is either
expecting me or counting on me to get whatever it is done, completed.  I find
being under the gun helps me actually complete what I wanted to complete in the
first place.
