---
title: The Dev Lance
---
#### The Dev Lance
Or, The intersection of Italian Renaissance Warface and Software Development

In 1360 A.D. the White Company, lead by John Hawkwood, was dominating the
Italian military scene.  John, initially an English soldier during the Hundred
Years War, joined a mercenary band named the White Company (supposedly called
so due to the amount they polished their plate armour).  After serving various
factions in France, John and the White Company traveled south to Italy, where
he would stay for the duration of his life.

John is regarded as one of the leading mercenary captains (called Condottieri
in Italian) in Renaissance Italy.  He achieved victory after victory using
superior tactics and superior weapon systems.  Specifically he perfected (and
may have introduced the Italians to) the use of Lances, small groups of
soldiers who supported one another during combat.  A typical Lance makeup would
be two mounted knights and a knight's page.  The knights bore the brunt of the
work but were only successful due to the work of the page who polished their
armor, kept their weapons, and supported them during combat by replenishing
their mounts.

In the vein of History being Philosophy by Example, I've found myself looking
towards Hawkwood's Lances as an example of how better to run a Software
Department.  In both situations you have a group of people with different
roles, but the same main objective.  You have some that do the actual work, and
others who support those doers and make sure they have the best chances of
success.  Both are equally important for success.   You operate as a cohesive
unit, and strive for organization and efficiency to achieve victory.

In this example, knights would be the engineers.  Literally with their boots on
the ground, they solve problems and fix issues by wading through source code
and documentation.  On their own they'd probably get a decent chunk of work
done, but eventually they'd start to become less efficient.  To continue our
metaphor: their weapons would become dull, their armour rusty, and their horses
exhausted.

That's where a page would add support by sharpening weapons, polishing armor
and replacing horses.  The most apt parallel for a page would be management,
both project and otherwise.  Similar to a page, it's the job of management to
give the best chance of success by providing better tools, removing blockers
and keeping everything running smoothly.  While they have many tasks to do,
their sole objective is to enable the ones doing the actual work, and help them
become more efficient.

The success of the White Company was due to the synergy inside each Lance.  Not
only were the White Company's soldiers execellent at their jobs, but their
support system made sure to keep their weapons sharp and their armour polished.
Even the name of the White Company indicates this, since they were supposedly
named after how bright and polished their knight's armour was.

Like the White Company, it's only with a balance of these doers and supporters
that Software Departments can be successful.  Great doers with poor support
will eventually burn out and fail; inefficient doers with great supporters
won't get the chance to succeed.  While in both the Renaissance Lance and the
Dev Lance success is measured by how efficiently the doers can get their jobs
done, only with competency in both areas will there be a complete success.


Sources: 
Mallett, Michael Edward., and William Caferro. Mercenaries and Their Masters: Warfare in Renaissance Italy. Barnsley: Pen & Sword Military, 2009. Print.
wikipedia.org
